we can put our heads in the sand and
ignore reality but in the end it's going
to come back to bite in this video we
are going to talk about something that
hasn't happened for a hundred years the
information I'm going to talk about
today is only for those who seek the
truth and for the vast majority of
people quite frankly they're not ready
I'm gonna show you this because I know
that you can handle it how does that
sound in today's video we're going to
look at not only just this one fact I
want to show you what's going on out
there in the
post-inflationary world that we can see
and I think it's going to be devastating
for Millions beginning right here you
could see Canada's making the 90s real
estate Bubble look like affordable
housing because the prices have gone so
astronomical unaffordable when compared
to wages unaffordable on so many
different scales right now Canadian real
estate is off the charts so I'm trying
to show you in one aspect that inflation
when we talk about
shelter you gotta have it can't ignore
it shelter is one of those that's just
really feeling it real hard right now
people are real burning about that and
we gotta understand where inflation
comes from of course that's the
expansion of the money supply
now things are changing U.S money supply
is doing something not seen since the
Great Depression and it may be a signal
of a big move to come for stocks that's
what they are saying okay because
historically we don't get these
circumstances of a declining money
supply without a bad thing happening
now at the same time
where I like to interject here I know
the videos that are out there that will
get all the clicks on these titles
but I want to tell you the full
breakdown okay if you're willing to
accept it
we had such an extreme surge in the
money supply leading up into this moment
so if you see it over uh let's say
10-year time frame and sort of level
that out a bit it's not as extreme and
so that the the rise and the fall that
we have now been dealing with is sort of
just you know continuing on with this
extreme expansion of debt and monetary
easing and all of that okay so I just
wanted to make that very clear that okay
yes it is down and I'll show you the
percentages and why it's important but
look at where we're coming from we're
coming from you know coming around a few
years ago this was
um you know this just massive
unbelievable surge where 40 of all the
currency was printed and what was it two
years or a year that just that just it
shocks the system now that it's coming
down we are nowhere near where where we
were coming around from 2020 okay so
just just I just want to make it real
for you I just want to give you the
actual information instead of just
shocking you all the time and people
don't understand and they feel lost
after well I want to show you the truth
I want to show you both sides and that's
really what this is all about but
they're not going to go anywhere with
that we know the currency Supply is
going to expand over time we just don't
know when that change is going to be in
the other direction and as this starts
to come down more and more it creates
more problems more dislocations remember
that banking crisis oh yeah what about
200 billion dollars in losses that
haven't really been exposed yet I'm
going to show you that in this video as
well take a look here you can see that
the money supply as related to M2 has
fallen by two percent or more only five
times in 153 years deflationary economic
downturns where the end result of the
previous four instances and so that's
what a lot of people are talking about
they're talking about a massive
deflationary spiral that envelops the
whole financial system that's certainly
possible Right but will the Federal
Reserve allow that to happen they can
certainly stop that if they devalue the
currency dramatically they will
household savings collapse Sparks
recession fears among economists not
just economists but of course a lot of
people you could see that this has
declined even in a historic basis even
on a percentage basis like you look at
it from different angles and and it is
in fact coming down quite a bit you can
see the personal savings rate was
estimated to be around 4.6 percent this
um is basically after people's income
what do they have left over and that's
that's what that means okay so after
their expenses their income comes
through what's left it's not necessarily
like Savings in the bank and so we know
that inflation is taken a toll that
that's all it means okay inflation is
taking a toll wages are not keeping up
we got a problem we got a big problem in
fact
inflation has hidden costs that go
beyond higher prices consumers need to
allocate time effort and funds to
planning budgeting and shopping do you
see that so now you got to go to six
different stores you've got to shop at
the dollar store instead of shopping at
Walmart we are looking at people buying
in Mass bulk together which I think is a
good idea
Mass bulk together to get that discount
that they simply couldn't with one
family and so these things go on and on
and I I think it's important of course
to address what's happening here and
that is permanent entrenched inflation
so the money supply is coming down but
at the end of the day the central banks
and the government want to they're they
really really desperately want to
devalue the currency
and how do I know that well we've heard
them say it so many times before
including Ben bernanke's speech in 2002.
households on high incomes are not
particularly high risk are at a
particularly high risk of sinking under
a mountain of debt and it's interesting
even the people that are considered to
be high income earners are dealing with
the same problems
and the whole point here is that it
doesn't matter how much you make you're
going to spend to your absolute most
that's what happens that's the reality
of the circumstances people get to raise
their job oh I know I'll buy the latest
BMW oh people get raise they're gonna
buy the pool people get a little bit of
inheritance they blow it all I've seen
that before what about somebody getting
a little bit of inheritance and suddenly
ah there's a real big problem because I
noticed that they were going to the
casino uh every weekend and uh they
don't seem too happy now oh that's right
because they've blew it all
really really terrible
okay and there's no difference by the
way between those going to the casino
and those speculating on any any type of
other Assets in my opinion I'm talking
about speculation not investing
here we go you can see it for yourself
Bank of America nurses 100 billion
dollar paper loss after big bet in the
bond market some more than double the
cost to other U.S lenders that channel
uh channeled flood of depositors to
deposits to cash so there is an issue
here you can see Bank of America there
are others by the way uh it's all the
big names Citigroup was in here
um JPMorgan Wells Fargo they're all here
and uh they've taken on some big losses
right now Bank of America is bearing the
cost of decisions they made three years
ago to pump the majority of a
670 billion dollar in deposit inflows in
debt markets at a time when bonds traded
at historically high prices and low
yields so they weren't getting that
return just like svb it's the same
scenario kind of with svb Silicon Valley
Bank they kind of had a big problem here
and now we are getting this right smack
dab in the face the moves left boa the
second largest U.S Bank by assets more
than a hundred billion dollars in paper
losses at the end of the quarter the sum
far exceeds unrealized bond market
losses reported by the largest peers
and so here we go you got the Savers
coming in that is like short-term stuff
and they're investing in long-term stuff
so imagine you're you're a bank you're
taking in all these deposits that has to
be readily available and you take that
and you throw it into long-term
Investments but then everybody says I
want my money back they start pulling
their money out and now you got all that
long-term stuff you can't make up for it
so this creates a problem they are
taking losses on this and uh that's
unfortunate for them and their
shareholders let me tell you so we'll
see what happens I think this is uh
still a crisis that is unfolding before
our very eyes the bank crisis is very
real and of course during these times
Contracting money supply tightening
Financial conditions all of these things
one by one by one will of course impact
their bottom line here we have it
central Bankers were slow to respond to
the search in inflation in the EU the UK
and the US so those charts are in that
order all I'm trying to show you here is
a light blue area which is the inflation
and the dark blue is their fed funds
rate or equivalent okay so every case
they're always so late on doing this
always they do not deal with inflation
properly and this is the result you get
it entrenched have they done it earlier
have they started instead of saying oh
inflation's transitory they should have
been dealing with it properly
higher long-term interest rates impose
large losses on the banks that hold them
this is just a connection with that and
I'm just trying to show you what's going
on today these banks are in trouble the
different degree depending on the bank
depending on the circumstances but in
general
higher interest rates has been a problem
for them svb was one and there are
others and I think we're still going to
feel those losses through 2023
especially with the commercial real
estate that has been a significant
problem and will actually be just as bad
in 2023 and uh 2024 based on what I've
seen from numbers and now we have this
issue that's pending here because
a lot of these countries are losing
faith in the dollar they can't use the
dollar their currencies are so weak
compared to the dollar they're different
reasons and now they're just basically
saying we don't want the dollar anymore
or we're not going to use it anymore or
we want to diversify there are now 41
countries ready to accept a brics
currency in August on this channel I
will be bringing you all the details as
it comes out when there's this whole
brick bricks conference so if you
subscribe to the channel I'll bring you
all that uh just hit that button down
below now I wanted you to know this
because we can see the world changing
and there's a multi-polar world that is
being developed and so what that means
is you might have the Swift system and
the U.S based Financial system that's
that's one thing but on the other end
you might have another system that runs
entirely independent instead of we all
use the Swift system we all use the
us-based system so we're going to have
these two separate systems maybe three
or four separate system and that means
ultimately that one country could do
business in these other systems and that
would
suddenly change things a lot it really
doesn't give the US a monopoly anymore
and I think that will kind of Swing the
balance of the strength economically of
the United States as well the other
countries uh so I would just be aware of
that and understand that you know if
these inflationary pressures aren't
entrenched and we have these problems
that's going to hurt these developing
economies really really bad okay so
they've got to change it's not like you
know we we want to in a sense they have
to and so we're going to get this other
system that's being developed right now
and perhaps the bricks are going to be
the core of that we will see as it um as
it happens I just want to tell you also
that you've got to get out of debt and
that's what this video is all about get
out of that bad debt I give you 10 tips
to get out of debt click it and I'll see
you there